---
layout: post
title: Computational Social Science and "what I enjoy about my work"
date: 2026-03-04
description: I regret to inform that I've been vibe coding
tags: 
categories:

---
Theres been a lot of content on AI writing recently. In a video essay on the topic, youtuber Mina Le states "I prefer bad human writing over perfect ai writing" and I wholeheartedly agree with the sentiment. I have a strong dislike for artificially generated prose, music and other forms of media. I do agree that they feel soulless and they will probably never be able to communicate emotion and _humaness_ as their non-ai counterparts. What about AI-generated code though?

Since watching the video I've been wondering if there is a parallel to the task I've LLMing the most: coding. Is there something inherently human about code that makes it more desirable than perfect AI code? Is my code, written in the old ways, desirable over Claude's code in any way? The answer should be no, right? In most measurable metrics of quality, code generated by LLMs outperforms human code (REF) and beyond that, any consideration would probably work on the assumption that my code has two things that it does not have: An aesthetic value and an audience.[^1] 

This did not sit well with me. As a literal card carrying computational social scientist, the idea of off-loading coding to a programming agent feels dirty.

In a great recent blogpost[^2], Joseph Noogan explores a similar idea better that I can. In it, he writes: 

>This raised the question of what I enjoy with my work. What would be lost if it was automated away? Watching Claude Code spin out line after line of code that is generally a higher quality than I can write, I can’t help but feel some sense of sadness. The boring, tedious part of cleaning data, writing code for a plot, and trudging through errors is one of the practical parts of research. It feels like small, applied problem solving. It is a relaxing break from higher level thinking.

Spot on.

What happens if we extend this beyond individuals researchers to a larger subfield largely defined by the technical know-how of their methods? 
 
[^1]: There is probably some space for AI generated visualizations. Still given the right instructions, AI generated code for visualization is probably more legible and efficient most of times that my own code. 

[^2]: [No Other Choice, Quantitative Social Science, and Claude Code](https://joenoonan.se/post/claude_code/no_other_choice.html)




